In this lecture we are going to talk about the random forest classifier implementation in Python.
So we are going to use this random forest classifier imported from seeking to learn.
So first of all let's load the IRS data set and you can import the IDE with CXVII file but we can use
the secretly data datasets instead.
So from secretly our own imported data sets and this dataset contains several datasets such as Boston
related house prices.
We have been talking about linear regression and we have used this dataset.
We can load irenæus data set digits data set divine data set breast cancer related datasets secretly
and is quite convenient in this aspect as well.
OK so we load the ITU is data sat again and we will have features and we will have target variables.
OK so we will have 4 features as usual and the single target variable with three classes I really Seto's
ideas versey color and irony's virginica we are going to use this train split in order to use 80 percent
of the data set for the training and 20 percent of the original dataset is for testing purposes.
So we just have to instantiate the random forest classifier with number of estimators is a thousand
and the maximum features is equal still the square root.
What does it mean that Hitler is going to construct a thousand decision trees.
These trees are going to be under correlated because not all the features are going to be used.
This is what we have been talking about in the tower articles section that ran them for us classifier
searches over a random square root of and features to find the best one.
As far as every split in the tree is concerned.
So that's why we are going to use the square root of the features as far as constructing the decision
tree is our concern.
Then we are going to feed the model so we are going to train the decision tree classifier on the training
data set and then we are going to make some predictions on the test dataset and we are going to calculate
confusion of Matrix items and the accuracy of the algorithm.
By the way you can take a look at the concrete documentation of random for us classifier so we can define
lots of lots of paramita as if we do not define the number of estimators.
So basically the number of decision trees being generated by a random forest classifier the default
value is Tannous So it is going to use taen decision trees under the hood.
We can define the criterion of whether to use the genie index approach or to use the entropy and information
again approach.
As far as constructing the decision trees are concerned then we have to define the maximum features.
We have several options.
The auto is the same as the square root where the maximum features is equal to the square root of the
number of features we can use the logarithm.
And if we do not define the maximum feature at all Dan the maximum features will be the number of features.
So basically instead of using random for us classifier if we do not specify the maximum features we
will use the standard bagging approach because this is the main difference between random for us classifier
and begging that for random for us classifier on every split in the tree.
A random selection of features is chosen from the full feature set.
So for begging the algorithm searches over all the features and for random for us classifier the algorithm
searches over a random square root and features.
OK so this maximal features is the most important Peramivir for random for as classifier.
So let's see whether it's working fine or not.
The accuracy 0 8 is 87 percent.
Maybe we should use cross-validation instead.
If you read on the algorithm it's going to be 98 percent.
If you run again 98 percent.
I have managed to end up with one.
So 100 percent accuracy.
OK it is approximately 97 percent accurate.
So the random forest classifier is approximately 97 percent accurate in the coming lectures.
We are going to talk about how to tune around for classifier even more.
Thanks for watching.